Hello and welcome to this art tutorial so you learn a lot of stuff.
But it would be a shame to leave this course without having some introduction to one of the most popular
algorithm in machinery that is quite recently popular but still it is definitely a very powerful model
especially if you work on large data sets.
It will offer you very high performance while being fast to execute.
And speaking of performance and execution speed it is important to remind that ex-GI boost is the most
powerful implementation of gradient boosting in terms of model performance and execution speed.
Therefore it's very important for you to have it in your toolkit.
So let's implement extra boost.
This is only going to be an introduction so we will make a simple implementation of actually boost.
But you will have to contemplate on your computer and you'll be able to try it on your problems on your
data sets and you'll see that even with this simple implementation it will definitely give you some
excellent performance.
And now what we're going to do is take one of the business problem we dealt with in this course.
This is going to be actually the problem that we solved in the deep learning section.
Remember this is the churn modeling problem where we need to predict the customers of the bank that
will leave the bank.
So this was a classification problem where we classify the customers in two classes those who will leave
the bank and those who will not leave the bank.
And so remember for this problem we obtained an accuracy of 86 percent.
But that took quite a while because we trained an artificial neural network with many bugs and therefore
it took quite some time to execute.
And so now in this section we're going to do the same.
We're going to apply extreme views on this churn modeling problem.
This data set contains.
If I remember 13 features but that's not a large dataset.
And what is important to highlight is that even if this was a large data set a very large data set well
extra boost would be one of the best model in terms of performance.
That is to get a good accuracy and execution speed.
So for example if you are working with a large data set I strongly encourage you to test ex-GI boost.
All right so we're going to do now is take the pre processing phase.
So that is only part 1 because part 2 is to implement the artificial neural network.
And so we just want to preprocess the data for this churn modeling problem associated with this churn
modeling as we fall.
But actually we're not going to take everything in this pre-processing phase.
The reason is that for the artificial neural network will feature scaling was totally compulsory no
questions asked features going must be applied for deep learning.
But the good news is that for actually boost world since actually boost is a great and boosting model
with decision trees well accordingly features killing is totally unnecessary and thats one of the very
good thing about ex-GI boos Besides its high performance and its fast execution speed.
Its that you can keep the interpretation of your problem of your data set and half the results youll
get after building the model so we can understand now why ex-GI Bruce is so popular its because it has
the three qualities first quality high performance second quality first execution speed and third quality.
You can keep all the interpretation of your problem and your model.
So definitely a model to have your tool kit.
All right so features killing is necessary here and therefore we will take everything from here up to
the top like this copy and we'll paste that in our extreme use File.
Here we go.
And now we can implement extremist.
So first let's introduce a new section fitting ex-GI boost to the trainset.
All right.
And first let's start actually.
So as usual there's a package.
It's the extra boost package that will allow us to implement extra booze very efficiently.
So let's stop here as usual.
Install that packages and inside the name of the extra package which is simply X G boost like this.
Then you select this line and press command control enter to execute.
And that's installing the extra boost package.
Right.
We can see it's precessing.
And here we get to downloaded binary packages are in this package folder.
All good ex-GI boosters installed.
So let's put that section in comment there.
And now let's import the expertise package because indeed we installed it.
But if we go down to the bottom extreme was installed but not important.
And we want to make it romantic so as is your music library and inside X G boost.
And that's we'll import the package.
All right.
And now let's implement actually boost.
And actually this is going to take one line because we're just going to make the classifier that extra
boost class for itself.
And so basically we just need to create a new variable that we call as usual classifier and then equals
and then we use the extra boost function from this extra package.
So extra boost and parenthesis and let's click here press one and get some information about this actually
use function.
So the information is we're interested in the arguments and what arguments do we need here.
OK so first we see that we have this harams parameter which is actually a list of parameters and these
parameters are all the parameters that you can see here.
For example the operand of that controls the learning rate the gamma parameter which is the minimum
loss reduction.
Well you have a lot of these parameters.
But this tutorial is just an introduction of X to boost.
So we will not do some chewing on our model and this course but I'm sure in some future courses I will
make some more complex implementations of extra boost on some more complex problems.
But in this course it's just to end with a simple introduction of actually boost so that you can at
least have some knowledge about it and have it in you target.
So let's not focus on this now and let's move on to the compulsory parameters that are of course the
first one is data.
So there is of course your trainset data set on which you want to train your extremely small role.
And so let's put that right now.
So first argument data equals then training set.
Here we go.
And actually here we only need the features in the transits So we will remove the dependent variable
from this training set because the train set contains both the features and that have been invaluable.
But what this data parameter expects is only the features.
So here we add some brackets and we remove that had been invaluable.
And what does this index.
Well to do this we need to import the data set first before importing the data set.
Let's quickly set the rifle there as working directory.
So right now we're in parts and then Section 49 extra boost.
That's the right there.
Make sure that you have to turn Mullings file and then click on sads working directory here.
And here we go.
Now we can import the data set.
Let's import it.
And that's the data set.
But remember in this dataset we don't take all the independent variables because we're not interested
in row number customer ID and surname we know that these revivals have no impact on the dependent variable.
So we remove them and that's what we do in this line dataset equals data set for 14.
That means that we take all the variables from the fourth variable of data set that is credit score
up to the last variable exited the depende revival.
That's the dependent variable.
And so let's take this line and execute.
And now if you look at our dataset Well this contains all the relevant features and to deepen invertible
exited and so the challenge is with all these independent variables here we want to predict if the customer
will leave or stay in the bank.
And so that's the data set we consider to train the model and test its performance and therefore the
index of the dependent variable we have to remove Now in the extreme lose function for the data parameter
is the last index here of the exited column.
And since we have 11 variables well that index is 11.
So let's go back to actually boost and let's go back to our function and therefore here we have 2 inputs
minus 11.
All right so we have our whole training set but without the division rivals That's think that's exactly
what we want.
So now let's go back to help to see if we need some more info about this first parameter.
Well indeed there is some very important information that we need to consider here is that this data
set needs to be an X to be the matrix.
So that's basically a type of Matrix but we can also see that in addition data the data parameter also
accepts Matrix.
But this is not a matrix.
This is a data frame so this won't work if we input the features this way so we can either convert this
into an to beat up the matrix or a simple matrix.
So let's take the simplest solution let's convert this data frame features into a matrix and you know
how to do this.
We just need to use that as dot matrix function and put inside some parenthesis because it's a function.
This data frame of features.
Here we go.
And now this becomes a matrix and that's exactly what we need.
All right perfect then next argument.
So here again you have a lot of other arguments but these are not compulsories we won't focus on them
now but the next compulsory argument is this label argument because indeed here we can put the matrix
of features but of course to train a classification model we need not only the matrix of features but
also that have been invaluable.
And that's what we put in this label parameter.
And so as you might expect since we put the features into a matrix Well we need to put this label parameter
as a vector and to get our dependent variable as vector we need to input label equals our training sets
than dollar.
And then we take the name of our dependent variable which is exited and this will give us a vector.
So training said Dollar exited is the dependent variable.
But given as a vector that's exactly what we need because as you can see label is expected to be a vector.
The vector of response values the response values are of course the values of the dependent variable.
All right.
Now next argument what is the next argument.
Well there is a third compulsory argument that we need to input here and that is actually above.
But I wanted to put the label after the matrix of features that made kind of sense.
And now there is a third argument that we need to input which is the and round's argument and round's
arguments is the maximum number of iterations.
So since we're not working on the too complex problem well the maximum number of 10 iterations will
be sufficient.
So we will input here and around as equals 10 an extra boost will be trained in maximum ten iterations.
Perfect.
And now actually this line of code is ready to be executed to train the extra boost classifier.
So even if extra boost is a very advanced machine learning problem well thanks to this extra package
you just need this single simple line of code to implement it very efficiently.
All right.
We're not going to execute this line now because first we need to run the data preprocessing phase and
then I would like to add some code sections to evaluate our extremely small performance.
So we're going to execute the whole thing in the end.
But for now let's add the last sections to evaluate to actually boost performance and of course we're
going to take our capful cross-validation technique to evaluate it.
And therefore here I'm going to take the careful cross-validation section which is right here and we're
going to use it on are extremely small.
So here I just need to copy this section go back to my execute small and paste it here.
And be careful inside of it.
We need to change the classifier because right here that's the kernel as the classifier.
And so basically we just need to replace this kernel as VM classifier by our extra boost classifier.
So I'm just copying that here and go back to my K4 cross-validation section and paste the code to try
and actually was gasifier on the training set right here.
All right and then we need to add another line of code inside this section.
It's related to the fact that this extra small will return the predictions as probabilities.
You know it will return the probability of class 1 and therefore you know this trick to convert the
probabilities into the real predictions 0 0 1.
Well we need to add this line of code.
Pred equals and then parenthesis.
Quite correct.
Larger than 0.5.
So that's if the probability is larger than 0.5 then we will be one.
And if the probability is lower than 0.5 then why spread zero.
So that's where you will get the binary outcome 0 or 1.
And that's exactly what escapable addition S. expects.
And eventually before we execute the whole thing there are two things that we still need to change first.
It's the fact that since the training set is expected to be a matrix all that's going to be the same
for the test set.
So here we also need add as dot matrix and inside the parenthesis we put our test fulled.
So that's the first change.
And now the second change is of course related to the index of the deep end Roybal because three here
was the index of the dependent variable in our previous problem where we implemented careful radiation.
So we need to replace this three index by the index of the dependent variable in our new problem which
is not 3 but 11 and same right here.
In the confusion matrix it is 11.
All right.
And now everything is ready we can execute the whole code.
So let's do it and let's see which accuracy we get.
So let's go back to the top.
We already imported the data set.
So now let's encode the categorical variables as factors.
Here we go.
Done.
Now let's split the datasets into the train set and the test set.
Here we go.
Done as well.
And now let's fit the extra with the training set.
So the actual package was already imported.
So basically we just need to select this line and execute.
Here we go.
We get the information of the root mean square error at each round.
So basically the rudiments square error is a relevant computation of the error.
You can picture this as the error.
And of course the lower is the error the better is your MO.
And we can see that from the first iteration to the last one detents one.
Well the error decreased from 0.14 one down to 0.20 nine.
And besides we can see that the maximum number of 10 iteration was a good choice because we can see
that it is more or less converging around 0.30.
Well feel free to try with more iterations and try to see if it's converging to a number that is less
than 30.
If you get a number close to 0.30 then 10 iterations was a good choice.
So perfect extra boost is implemented and trained on the train set.
And now let's apply K4 crossable addition to evaluates its performance with the accuracy metric.
And actually I'm noticing that there is still one thing to change it's the name of the dip viable here.
Congratulations to those of you who noticed that we need to replace purchased here by the real name
of the dependent variable in our problem which is not purchased but exited.
So let's replace purchase here by accident.
And here we go.
Now everything should be fine.
Let's do one last check as matrix for the trainset as matrix for the test set whitebread converted into
a binary outcome 0 or 1.
Indexes are correct for the dependent variable.
Everything looks fine.
Let's select this whole section here and get the ultimate accuracy of are actually with morrow.
Here we go.
All executed properly and very fast and we get a final accuracy of 88 percent.
So not only that was very efficient but also we managed to beat the accuracy of 10 with and then.
And besides these values the relevant accuracy of actually Brousseau we can trust this value of 88 percent.
So that's very good.
Not only actually was was very fast but also gave us an amazing accuracy.
Probably the best of all the models we implemented in this course.
So that was an amazing job.
And now it is time to say goodbye because this was actually the last the of this course.
So that's quite a feeling because this is the end of this machine learning journey that I introduced
in my very first tutorial of this course.
So yes that's right that's the end of the journey.
However I am sure this is not the last machine learning journey.
This is your first missionary journey.
I was so happy to take this adventure with you.
I really enjoyed that journey I hope that's the case for you too.
And I'll be very happy to make some new machinery and cause courses to start some new machinery journeys.
So I hope I'll see you very soon.
And until then learning.